README.md, before:

# Genomes from Microbes of Fermented Foods
This repository documents curating genomes and metadata from publicly available studies of microbes from different fermented foods. 

## Accessed Datasets and Repositories
For mining microbial genoems of fermented foods for bioactive properties, we accessed metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) and isolates from publicly available sources. 

- Carlino et al. 2024 [Unexplored microbial diversity from 2,500 food metagenomes and links with the human microbiome](https://www.cell.com/cell/fulltext/S0092-8674(24)00833-X), data downloaded from [https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10891046](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10891046)
- Carlino et al. 2024 cFMD v1.2.1 [Unexplored microbial diversity from 2,500 food metagenomes and links with the human microbiome](https://www.cell.com/cell/fulltext/S0092-8674(24)00833-X) second release of food MAGs, data downloaded from [https://zenodo.org/records/14906604](https://zenodo.org/records/14906604), excluding MAGs from Saak et al. 2023 since we already incorporate those separately
- Caffrey et al. 2024 [MiFoDB, a workflow for microbial food metagenomic characterization, enables high-resolution analysis of fermented food microbial dynamics](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.03.29.587370v1.full), data downloaded from [https://zenodo.org/records/13830159](https://zenodo.org/records/13830159) for MiFoDB_beta_v3
- Rappaport et al. 2024 [Genomics and synthetic community experiments uncover the key metabolic roles of acetic acid bacteria in sourdough starter microbiomes](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/msystems.00537-24), data available at [PRJNA589612](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA589612/) and metadata accessed from authors
- Du et al. 2023 [Metagenomics reveals the habitat specificity of biosynthetic potential of secondary metabolites in global food fermentations](https://microbiomejournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s40168-023-01536-8), data downloaded from [Github](https://github.com/durubing-jn/food-fermentation-mategenome)
- Saak et al. 2023 [Longitudinal, Multi-Platform Metagenomics Yields a High-Quality Genomic Catalog and Guides an In Vitro Model for Cheese Communities](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/msystems.00701-22), data downloaded from [Dryad](https://datadryad.org/stash/dataset/doi:10.5061/dryad.bg79cnpd8)
- BacDive Genbank accessions from fermented foods. [BacDive](https://bacdive.dsmz.de/) accessions from fermented foods were collected in `metadata/raw_metadata/isolate_genomes/BacDive_fermented_food_filtered_list.tsv` and matched to available Genbank assembly records in `metadata/raw_metadata/isolate_genomes/bacdive/2024-10-08-parse-bacdive-accessions.tsv`. Genomes were downloaded with `ncbi-genome-download` with: 
    ```
    ncbi-genome-download --section genbank \\
    --assembly-accessions metadata/raw_metadata/isolate_genomes/bacdive/bacdive-accessions-download.txt \\
    -m bacdive-metadata.txt \\
    --format "fasta" \\
    -p 3 \\
    bacteria
    ```

## Environment Setup
After [installing conda for your OS](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html), you can create a conda environment with all the dependencies required for running the scripts with: 
```
conda env create -n fermented_foods envs/dev.yml
```

## Repository Structure & Files
The repository is split both for scripts and directories for handling genomes from MAG datasets or collections of isolates. The cleaned, curated metadata for the MAG datasets and bacdive isolates is in the main `metadata` directory and copied in the subdirectories. The subdirectories contain the raw files for curating metadata from different sources together.

Additionally there are main metadata files for high-quality (HQ) genomes from the MAG and Genbank isolate sources. A "HQ" MAG was considered to be a bacterial MAG with at least 90% completeness and less than 100 contigs. A "HQ" Genbank isolate with BacDive metadata was considered to be a genome with at least 90% completeness and less than 50 contigs in the assembly.
``` 
- metadata/
    - all-bacdive-ff-metadata.tsv
    - all-food-mags-metadata.tsv
    - all-hq-bac-food-mag-metadata.tsv
    - all-hq-bacdive-ff-metadata.tsv
    - raw_metadata/
        - isolate_genomes/
        - mag_datasets/
    - cleaned_metadata/
        - isolate_genomes/
        - mag_datasets/
- scripts/
- envs/
```

Commit message:

reference to metadata curation repository

README.md, after:

# Genomes from Microbes of Fermented Foods
This repository documents curating genomes and metadata from publicly available studies of microbes from different fermented foods. 

## Accessed Datasets and Repositories
For mining microbial genoems of fermented foods for bioactive properties, we accessed metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) and isolates from publicly available sources. 

- Carlino et al. 2024 [Unexplored microbial diversity from 2,500 food metagenomes and links with the human microbiome](https://www.cell.com/cell/fulltext/S0092-8674(24)00833-X), data downloaded from [https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10891046](https://zenodo.org/doi/10.5281/zenodo.10891046)
- Carlino et al. 2024 cFMD v1.2.1 [Unexplored microbial diversity from 2,500 food metagenomes and links with the human microbiome](https://www.cell.com/cell/fulltext/S0092-8674(24)00833-X) second release of food MAGs, data downloaded from [https://zenodo.org/records/14906604](https://zenodo.org/records/14906604), excluding MAGs from Saak et al. 2023 since we already incorporate those separately
- Caffrey et al. 2024 [MiFoDB, a workflow for microbial food metagenomic characterization, enables high-resolution analysis of fermented food microbial dynamics](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.03.29.587370v1.full), data downloaded from [https://zenodo.org/records/13830159](https://zenodo.org/records/13830159) for MiFoDB_beta_v3
- Rappaport et al. 2024 [Genomics and synthetic community experiments uncover the key metabolic roles of acetic acid bacteria in sourdough starter microbiomes](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/msystems.00537-24), data available at [PRJNA589612](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA589612/) and metadata accessed from authors
- Du et al. 2023 [Metagenomics reveals the habitat specificity of biosynthetic potential of secondary metabolites in global food fermentations](https://microbiomejournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s40168-023-01536-8), data downloaded from [Github](https://github.com/durubing-jn/food-fermentation-mategenome)
- Saak et al. 2023 [Longitudinal, Multi-Platform Metagenomics Yields a High-Quality Genomic Catalog and Guides an In Vitro Model for Cheese Communities](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/msystems.00701-22), data downloaded from [Dryad](https://datadryad.org/stash/dataset/doi:10.5061/dryad.bg79cnpd8)
- BacDive Genbank accessions from fermented foods. [BacDive](https://bacdive.dsmz.de/) accessions from fermented foods were collected in `metadata/raw_metadata/isolate_genomes/BacDive_fermented_food_filtered_list.tsv` and matched to available Genbank assembly records in `metadata/raw_metadata/isolate_genomes/bacdive/2024-10-08-parse-bacdive-accessions.tsv`. Genomes were downloaded with `ncbi-genome-download` with: 
    ```
    ncbi-genome-download --section genbank \\
    --assembly-accessions metadata/raw_metadata/isolate_genomes/bacdive/bacdive-accessions-download.txt \\
    -m bacdive-metadata.txt \\
    --format "fasta" \\
    -p 3 \\
    bacteria
    ```

## Environment Setup
After [installing conda for your OS](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html), you can create a conda environment with all the dependencies required for running the scripts with: 
```
conda env create -n fermented_foods envs/dev.yml
```

## Metadata Curation 
Metadata associated with each genome including sample accession, food information and taxonomy, and further curation of the genome set including dereplication and GTDB-tk taxonomic assignment is documented in the (`fermentedfood_metadata_curation`)[https://github.com/MicrocosmFoods/fermentedfood_metadata_curation] repository. 

## Repository Structure & Files
The repository is split both for scripts and directories for handling genomes from MAG datasets or collections of isolates. The cleaned, curated metadata for the MAG datasets and bacdive isolates is in the main `metadata` directory and copied in the subdirectories. The subdirectories contain the raw files for curating metadata from different sources together.

Additionally there are main metadata files for high-quality (HQ) genomes from the MAG and Genbank isolate sources. A "HQ" MAG was considered to be a bacterial MAG with at least 90% completeness and less than 100 contigs. A "HQ" Genbank isolate with BacDive metadata was considered to be a genome with at least 90% completeness and less than 50 contigs in the assembly.
``` 
- metadata/
    - all-bacdive-ff-metadata.tsv
    - all-food-mags-metadata.tsv
    - all-hq-bac-food-mag-metadata.tsv
    - all-hq-bacdive-ff-metadata.tsv
    - raw_metadata/
        - isolate_genomes/
        - mag_datasets/
    - cleaned_metadata/
        - isolate_genomes/
        - mag_datasets/
- scripts/
- envs/
```
